feat(agents): add AGENTS.md template (#221)
getoutreach/stencil-base: AGENTS.md

# stencil-base

Ignore lines containing "Stencil::Block"; they are areas in your generated code that you’d like to persist across runs and are repository specific. These lines are for template generator and do not contain agent instructions.

## Description

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(agentsProjectOverview)>> -->

> Base templates for a stencil backed service

Reviewer: suggestion: Not always a service
```suggestion
Base templates for a Stencil-managed repository.
```

Author: Currently there is the default of "if Description is empty, populate with description from `service.yaml`". I have updated the Description.

<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

## Project overview

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(projectOverview)>> -->

> 

Reviewer: question: what would be an appropriate project overview for this repo?

Author: This needs to be produced by the CODEOWNER. I have added an example Project overview in later commit.

<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

## Generic commands

```bash
# stencil
stencil # Run stencil program with arguments specified in service.yaml file

# mise
mise tasks ls # List all tasks available through mise.

> mise run <task> # Run a task available through mise.

Reviewer: question: why have this section *and* the separate `docs/agents/` files?

Author: Files referenced in `References` are meant to be more descriptive and include much more information, similar to skill file.

`Generic commands` should be a short section with most used commands that agent will need.

# make
make fmt # Run formatters on project's code.
make lint # Run linters on project's code.

# golang
make gogenerate # Run go generate to create any generated code, such as protobufs or Kubernetes CRDs.

> go mod tidy # Ensure your go.mod and go.sum files are up to date.

Reviewer: issue: again, this is part of `make fmt` and `make lint`

Author: Removed from `stencil-golang`

* service.yaml: File used as configuration for `stencil` program containing additional arguments and stencil modules to use
* stencil.lock: File used as record for:
  1. What modules were used and their version
  2. What module owns which file
  3. If a file is not listed here, the owner is current repository
* docs/: Directory used to store documentation files and reference materials for the project.
* `templates/`: Templates for generating project files, such as `AGENTS.md.tpl` for the AGENTS.md file. Used in stencil-modules to define the structure and content of generated files.
* `scripts/`: internal development shell scripts _(**deprecated**, prefer to use `mise` tasks when appropriate)_
* `.vscode/`: VSCode configuration files
<!-- <<Stencil::Block(directoryStructureCustom)>> -->

<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

If you need more context, you can find more information in `docs/` directory. If the directory does not exist, ignore this line.

## References table

| Description | Reference |
|----|----|
| Stencil commands | [docs/stencil-commands.md](./docs/agents/stencil-commands.md) |
| Mise commands | [docs/mise-commands.md](./docs/agents/mise-commands.md) |

> | Internal Go idioms | [webpage](https://outreach-io.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EN/pages/1124335785/Go+idioms) |

Reviewer: issue: probably shouldn't put this in public repos

Author: Remnant from local restencil from `stencil-golang`. Removed.

> | Idiomatic Go practices | [webpage](https://dmitri.shuralyov.com/idiomatic-go) |

Reviewer: question: I can't find this in any of the Outreach Go docs. Why did you choose this link? The one I'm aware of is https://go.dev/doc/effective_go

Author: In our internal Go resources [here](https://outreach-io.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EN/pages/701465069/Training+Resources+Go#I-know-the-basics.-What's-next%3F). They originate from local restencil using `stencil-golang` and were removed from this repository after restencil

Reviewer: Ugh, Rovo was not helpful in finding that link at all.

Reviewer: Can we swap it to the official Go page anyway?

Author: Yes, I changed it in the `stencil-golang` repo.

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(referencesTableCustom)>> -->

<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

## Boundaries

### Always

- Prefer running `mise` tasks over make targets

> - Run `go mod tidy` after adding or removing Go dependencies

Reviewer: suggestion: prefer a task over a single command

```suggestion
- Run `make fmt` after adding or removing Go dependencies
```

# AI Agent instructions

> Ignore lines containing "Stencil::Block"; they are templates. Purpose: concise rules and actionable workflows for AI-assisted contributors.

Reviewer: > they are templates

issue: They aren't templates. See [docs](https://engineering.outreach.io/stencil/getting-started/module-quick-start/#step-4-using-a-block).

> Purpose: concise rules and actionable workflows for AI-assisted contributors.

question: isn't this implied, as per [the docs for the file format](https://agents.md/)?

Author: Updated template

## Project purpose

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(projectPurpose)>> -->

> <!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

Reviewer: suggestion: should be populated from the `service.yaml` description.

Author: Shouldn't description in `service.yaml` be much more concise than _Project purpose_ in `AGENTS.md` file?

## Directory structure
* `api/rpc/`: Contains RPC client code templates for API communication.
* `deployments/app/configs/`: Contains Jsonnet configuration templates for application deployment settings.
* `deployments/app/mixins/`: Contains Jsonnet mixin templates for common application deployment patterns.
* `deployments/tf/`: Contains Terraform templates.

> * `monitoring/`: Contains Terraform templates for comprehensive monitoring setup.

Reviewer: issue: does not exist in this repository.

> * `.snapshots/`: Contains snapshot files for testing template rendering outputs.

Reviewer: issue: should be `templates/.snapshots`, only exists in Stencil template modules with test snapshots, not regular services.

Author: This was removed after restencil

* **./service.yaml**: File used as configuration for `stencil` program containing additional arguments and stencil modules to use
* **./stencil.lock**: File used as record for:
  1. What modules where used and their version
  2. What module owns which file

>   3. If a file is not listed here, the owner is current repository

Reviewer: > If a file is not listed here, the owner is current repository

question: What is the end goal of this statement? Or rather, what do you want the AI do with this information, and is it specific enough that any reasonable LLM model understands it? (e.g., Claude Sonnet)

Author: I've tested it with a simple question of "What stencil module is the owner of file X" and it read information from `AGENTS.md`, then from `stencil.lock` and responded correctly, so I think so. Tested with Claude Sonnet.

## Components
What are components? (outreach)

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(agentsComponentsCustom)>> -->

> <!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

Reviewer: question:

* What are components?
* Why is there an `(outreach)` parenthetical?

Author: * Components are "one-liners and references relevant to the repo" according to @ekalinichev 
* This was used as a test of the stencil hooks (there was a typo in another stencil module). Removed in later commit.

Author: Rename "Components" to "References" as per later suggestion

## Other

> Other agent information (outreach)

Reviewer: question: why is there an `(outreach)` parenthetical?

Author: This was used as a test of the stencil hooks (there was a typo in another stencil module).

# stencil-base

Ignore lines containing `Stencil::Block`; they are areas in your generated code that you'd like to persist across runs and are repository specific. These lines are for the template generator and do not contain agent instructions.

## Description

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(agentsProjectOverview)>> -->
Base templates for a Stencil-managed repository.
<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

## Project overview

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(projectOverview)>> -->
`stencil-base` is a [Stencil module](https://engineering.outreach.io/stencil/reference/modules/): it provides the base templates rendered into every Stencil-managed repository at Outreach.
This repository consumes itself via a `./` replacement in `service.yaml`.
<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

## Generic commands

```bash
# stencil
stencil # Run stencil program with arguments specified in service.yaml file

# mise
mise --help # Show help for mise commands.

# make
make fmt # Run formatters on project's code.
make lint # Run linters on project's code.
# <<Stencil::Block(customCommands)>>

# <</Stencil::Block>>
```

## Directory structure

> * service.yaml: File used as configuration for `stencil` program containing additional arguments and stencil modules to use
> * stencil.lock: A lockfile for Stencil which also declares which files in the repo are managed, and which module manages it. Third party generated files are not cataloged.

Reviewer: suggestion: be consistent
```suggestion
* service.yaml: File used as configuration for `stencil` program containing additional arguments and Stencil modules to use.
* stencil.lock: Lockfile for Stencil which also declares which files in the repository are managed, and which module manages it. Third party generated files are not cataloged.
```

* docs/: Directory used to store documentation files and reference materials for the project.
<!-- <<Stencil::Block(directoryStructureCustom)>> -->

<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

> If you need more context, you can find more information in `docs/` directory.

Reviewer: Suggestion: grammar

```suggestion
If you need more context, you can find more information in the `docs/` directory.
```

# stencil-base

> Ignore lines containing "Stencil::Block"; they are areas in your generated code that you’d like to persist across runs and are repository specific. These lines are for template generator and do not contain agent instructions.

Reviewer: Nit: grammar
```suggestion
Ignore lines containing `Stencil::Block`; they are areas in your generated code that you'd like to persist across runs and are repository specific. These lines are for the template generator and do not contain agent instructions.
```

## Description

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(agentsProjectOverview)>> -->
Base templates for a Stencil-managed repository.
<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

## Project overview

<!-- <<Stencil::Block(projectOverview)>> -->

> `stencil-base` is a [Stencil module](https://engineering.outreach.io/stencil/reference/modules/), not a runnable service: it provides the base templates rendered into every Stencil-managed repository at Outreach.

Reviewer: suggestion: remove fluff
```suggestion
`stencil-base` is a [Stencil module](https://engineering.outreach.io/stencil/reference/modules/): it provides the base templates rendered into every Stencil-managed repository at Outreach.
```

The source of truth is `templates/*.tpl` (Go text templates, helpers in `templates/_helpers.tpl`); root-level files are rendered outputs — edit the template, not the output.

> `manifest.yaml` defines the module's arguments and post-run commands; tests are `stenciltest` snapshot tests (`go test ./templates/...`, snapshots in `templates/.snapshots/`).

Reviewer: suggestion: this is redundant with whatever is provided by `stencil-template-base` - and also really not an "overview".
```suggestion
```

This repository consumes itself via a `./` replacement in `service.yaml`.
<!-- <</Stencil::Block>> -->

## Generic commands

```bash
# stencil
stencil # Run stencil program with arguments specified in service.yaml file

# mise
mise --help # Show help for mise commands.

# make
make fmt # Run formatters on project's code.
make lint # Run linters on project's code.
# <<Stencil::Block(customCommands)>>

# <</Stencil::Block>>
```

## Directory structure

* service.yaml: File used as configuration for `stencil` program containing additional arguments and stencil modules to use
* stencil.lock: File used as record for:
  1. What modules were used and their version
  2. What module owns which file

>   3. If a file is not listed here, the owner is current repository

Reviewer: suggestion: be more succinct about this. AI knows what a lockfile is.
```suggestion
* stencil.lock: A lockfile for Stencil which also declares which files in the repo are managed, and which module manages it. Third party generated files are not cataloged.
```
